V. The Pinch-Bug and His Prey.
About half-past ten the cracked bell of the small church began to ring, and presently
the people began to gather for the morning sermon. The Sunday-school children distributed
themselves about the house, and occupied pews with their parents, so as to be under supervision.
Aunt Polly came, and Tom and Sid and Mary sat with her, Tom being placed next to the
aisle, in order that he might be as far away from the open window and the seductive outside
summer scenes as possible. The crowd filed up the aisles, the aged and needy postmaster,
who had seen better days, the mayor and his wife, for they had a mayor there, among other
unnecessary, the justice of the peace, the widow Douglas, fair, smart and forty, a generous
good-hearted soul and well-to-do, her hill mansion the only palace in the town, and the
most hospitable and much the most lavish in the matter of festivities that St. Petersburg
could boast, the bent and venerable major and Mrs. Ward, lawyer Riverson, they knew
notable from a distance, next the bell of the village, followed by a troop of lawn-clad
and ribbon-decked young heartbreakers, then all the young clerks in town in a body, for
they had stood in the vestibule sucking their cane-heads, a circling wall of oiled and simpering
admirers till the last girl had run their gauntlet.
And last of all came the model-boy, Willie Mufferson, taking as heedful care of his mother
as if she were cut glass. He always brought his mother to church, and was the pride of
all the matrons. The boys all hated him, he was no good. And besides, he had been thrown
up to them so much. His white handkerchief was hanging out of his pocket behind, as usual
on Sundays, accidentally. Tom had no handkerchief, and he looked upon boys who had as snobs.
The congregation, being fully assembled now, the bell rang once more, to warn laggards
and stragglers, and then a solemn hush fell upon the church, which was only broken by
the tittering and whispering of the choir in the gallery. The choir always tittered
and whispered all through service. There was once a church choir that was not ill-bred,
but I have forgotten where it was now. It was a great many years ago, and I can scarcely
remember anything about it, but I think it was in some foreign country.
The minister gave out the hymn, and read it through with a relish in a peculiar style,
which was much admired in that part of the country. His voice began on a medium key,
and climbed steadily up till it reached a certain point where it bore with strong emphasis
the topmost word, and then plunged down as if from a spring-board.
Shall I be carried to the skies On flowery beds of ease,
Whilst others fight to win the prize And sail through bloody seas?
He was regarded as a wonderful reader. At church, sociables, he was always called upon
to read poetry, and when he was through, the ladies would lift up their hands and let
them fall helplessly in their laps, and wall their eyes and shake their heads as much as
to say, Words cannot express it, it is too beautiful, too beautiful for this mortal earth.
After the hymn had been sung, the reverend Mr. Sprague turned himself into a bulletin-board,
and read off notices of meetings and societies and things, till it seemed that the list would
stretch out to the crack of doom, a queer custom which is still kept up in America even
in cities away here in this age of abundant newspapers. Often the less there is to justify
a traditional custom, the harder it is to get rid of it.
And now the minister prayed. A good, generous prayer it was, and went into details. It pleaded
for the church and the little children of the church, for the other churches of the
village, for the village itself, for the county, for the state, for the state officers, for
the United States, for the churches of the United States, for Congress, for the president,
for the officers of the government, for poor sailors tossed by stormy seas, for the oppressed
millions groaning under the heel of European monarchies and Oriental despotisms, for such
as have the light and the good tidings, and yet have not eyes to see nor ears to hear
withal, for the heathen in the far islands of the sea, and closed with a supplication
that the words he was about to speak might find grace and favour, and be as seeds sown
in fertile ground, yielding in time a grateful harvest of good. Amen.
There was a rustling of dresses, and the standing congregation sat down. The boy whose history
this book relates did not enjoy the prayer. He only endured it, if he even did that much.
He was restive all through it. He kept tally of the details of the prayer unconsciously,
for he was not listening, but he knew the ground of old and the clergyman's regular
route over it, and when a little trifle of new matter was interlarded, his ear detected
it, and his whole nature resented it. He considered additions unfair and scoundrelly.
In the midst of the prayer a fly had lit on the back of the pew in front of him, and
tortured his spirit by calmly rubbing its hands together, embracing its head with its
arms, and polishing it so vigorously that it seemed to almost part company with the
body, and the slender thread of a neck was exposed to view, scraping its wings with its
hind legs and smoothing them to its body as if they had been coattails, going through
its whole toilet as tranquilly as if it knew it was perfectly safe, as indeed it was,
for as sorely as Tom's hands itched to grab for it, they did not dare. He believed his
soul would be instantly destroyed if he did such a thing while the prayer was going on,
but with the closing sentence his hand began to curve and steel forward, and the instant
the Amen was out the fly was a prisoner of war. His aunt detected the act and made him
let it go.
The minister gave out his text and droned along monotonously through an argument that
was so prosy that many ahead by and by began to nod, and yet it was an argument that dealt
in limitless fire and brimstone and thinned the predestined elect down to a company so
small as to be hardly worth the saving. Tom counted the pages of the sermon. After church
he always knew how many pages there had been, but he seldom knew anything else about the
discourse. However, this time he was really interested for a little while. The minister
made a grand and moving picture of the assembling together of the world's hosts at the millennium,
when the lion and the lamb should lie down together and a little child should lead them.
But the pathos, the lesson, the moral of the great spectacle were lost upon the boy. He
only thought of the conspicuousness of the principal character before the onlooking nations.
His face lit with the thought, and he said to himself that he wished he could be that
child if it was a tame lion.
Now he lapsed into suffering again, as the dry argument was resumed. Presently he bethought
him of a treasure he had and got it out. It was a large black beetle with formidable jaws—a
pinch bug, he called it. It was in a percussion cap box. The first thing the beetle did was
take him by the finger. A natural Philip followed. The beetle went floundering into the aisle
and lit on its back, and the hurt finger went into the boy's mouth. The beetle lay there
working its helpless legs, unable to turn over. Tom eyed it and longed for it, but it
was safe out of his reach.
Other people uninterested in the sermon found relief in the beetle, and they eyed it too.
Presently a vagrant poodle dog came idling along, sad at heart, lazy with the summer
and the quiet, weary of captivity, sighing for change. He spied the beetle. The drooping
tail lifted and wagged. He surveyed the prize, walked around it, smelt at it from a safe
distance, walked around it again, grew bolder, and took a closer smell. Then lifted his lip
and made a gingerly snatch at it, just missing it, made another and another, began to enjoy
the diversion, subsided to his stomach with the beetle between his paws, and continued
his experiments. Grew weary at last, and then indifferent and absent-minded.
His head nodded, and little by little his chin descended and touched the enemy who seized
it. There was a sharp yelp, a flirt of the poodle's head, and the beetle fell a couple
of yards away and lit on its back once more. The neighboring spectators shook with a gentle
inward joy, several faces went behind fans and handkerchiefs, and Tom was entirely happy.
The dog looked foolish and probably felt so, but there was resentment in his heart, too,
and a craving for revenge. So he went to the beetle and began a wary attack on it again,
jumping at it from every point of a circle, lighting with his forepaws within an inch
of the creature, making even closer snatches at it with his teeth, and jerking his head
till his ears flapped again. But he grew tired once more, after a while, tried to amuse himself
with a fly, but found no relief, followed an ant around with his nose close to the floor,
and quickly wearied of that, yawned, sighed, forgot the beetle entirely, and sat down on
it.
Then there was a wild yelp of agony, and the poodle went sailing up the aisle. The yelps
continued, and so did the dog. He crossed the house in front of the altar. He flew down
the other aisle. He crossed before the doors. He clamored up the homestretch. His anguish
grew with his progress, till presently he was but a woolly comet moving in its orbit
with a gleam and the speed of light. At last the frantic sufferer sheered from its course
and sprang into its master's lap. He flung it out of the window, and the voice of distress
quickly thinned away and died in the distance. By this time the whole church was red-faced
and suffocating with suppressed laughter, and the sermon had come to a dead standstill.
The discourse was resumed presently, but it went lame and halting, all possibility of
impressiveness being at an end. For even the gravest sentiments were constantly being received
with a smothered burst of unholy mirth, under cover of some remote pew-back, as if the poor
parson had said a rarely facetious thing. It was a genuine relief to the whole congregation
when the ordeal was over and the benediction pronounced. Tom Sawyer went home quite cheerful,
thinking to himself that there was some satisfaction about divine service when there was a bit
of variety in it. He had but one marring thought. He was willing that the dog should play with
his pinch-bug, but he did not think it was upright in him to carry it off.
CHAPTER VI.
TOM MEETS BECKY
Monday morning found Tom Sawyer miserable. Monday morning always found him so, because
it began another week's slow suffering in school. He generally began that day with wishing
he had had no intervening holiday. It made the going into captivity in fetters again
so much more odious. Tom lay thinking. Presently it occurred to him that he wished he was sick,
then he could stay home from school. Here was a vague possibility. He canvassed his
system. No ailment was found, and he investigated again. This time he thought he could detect
colicky symptoms, and he began to encourage them with considerable hope. But they soon
grew feeble and presently died wholly away. He reflected further. Suddenly he discovered
something. One of his upper front teeth was loose. This was lucky. He was about to begin
to groan as a starter, as he called it, when it occurred to him that if he came into court
with that argument, his aunt would pull it out, and that would hurt. So he thought he
would hold a tooth in reserve for the present, and seek further. Nothing offered for some
little time, and then he remembered hearing the doctor tell about a certain thing that
laid up a patient for two or three weeks, and threatened to make him lose a finger.
So the boy eagerly drew his sore toe from under the sheet, and held it up for inspection.
But now he did not know the necessary symptoms. However, it seemed well worth while to chance
it, so he fell to groaning with considerable spirit. But Sid slept on unconscious. Tom
groaned louder, and fancied that he began to feel pain in the toe. No result from Sid.
Tom was panting with his exertions by this time. He took a rest, and then swelled himself
up and fetched a succession of admirable groans. Sid snored on.
Tom was aggravated. He said,
"'Sid! Sid!' and shook him. This course worked well, and Tom began to groan again. Sid yawned,
stretched, then brought himself up on his elbow with a snort, and began to stare at
Tom. Tom went on groaning, and Sid said,
"'Tom! Say, Tom!' No response.
"'Here, Tom. Tom! What is the matter, Tom?' And he shook him and looked in his face anxiously.
Tom moaned out,
"'Oh! Don't, Sid! Don't joggle me!'
"'Why, what's the matter, Tom? I must call Auntie.'
"'No, never mind. It'll be over by and by, maybe. Don't call anybody.'
"'But I must.'
"'Don't groan so, Tom. It's awful. How long you been this way?'
"'Hours.'
"'Ouch! Oh, don't stir so, Sid. You'll kill me.'
"'Tom, why didn't you wake me sooner?'
"'Oh, Tom, don't. It makes my flesh crawl to hear you. Tom, what is the matter?'
"'I forgive you everything, Sid. Oh, everything you ever done to me. When I'm gone.'
"'Tom, you ain't dying, are you?'
"'Don't, Tom. Oh, don't. Maybe.'
"'Oh, I forgive everything, Sid. Oh, tell him so, Sid. And, Sid, you give my window
sash, and my cat with one eye to that new girl that's come to town, and tell her—'
But Sid had snatched his clothes and gone. Tom was suffering in reality now, so handsomely
was his imagination working, and so his groans had gathered quite a genuine tone. Sid flew
downstairs and said,
"'Oh, Aunt Polly, come! Tom's dying!'
"'Dying?'
"'Yes, and don't wait. Come, quick! Rubbish! I don't believe it!'
But she fled upstairs, nevertheless, with Sid and Mary at her heels, and her face grew
white too, and her lip trembled. When she reached the bedside, she gasped out,
"'You, Tom! Tom, what's the matter with you?'
"'Oh, Auntie, I'm—what's the matter with you? What is the matter with you, child?'
"'Oh, Auntie, my sore toe's mortified!'
The old lady sank down into the chair and laughed a little, then cried a little, then
did both together. This restored her, and she said,
"'Tom, what a turn you did give me! Now you shut up that nonsense and climb out of this!'
The groans ceased, and the pain vanished from the toe. The boy felt a little foolish, and
he said,
"'Aunt Polly, it seemed mortified, and it hurt so I never minded my tooth at all.'
"'Your tooth, indeed. What's the matter with your tooth?'
"'One of them's loose, and it aches perfectly awful.'
"'There, there, now, don't begin that groaning again. Open your mouth. Well, your tooth
is loose, but you're not going to die about that. Mary, get me a silk thread, and a chunk
of fire out of the kitchen.'
Tom said,
"'Oh, please, Auntie, don't pull it out. It don't hurt any more. I wish I may never stir
if it does. Please don't, Auntie. I don't want to stay home from school.'
"'Oh, you don't, don't you? So all this raw was because you thought you'd get to stay
home from school and go fishing. Tom, Tom, I love you so, and you seem to try every
way you can to break my old heart with your outrageousness.'
By this time the dental instruments were ready. The old lady made one end of the silk thread
fast to Tom's tooth with a loop, and tied the other to the bed-post. Then she seized
the chunk of fire, and suddenly thrust it almost into the boy's face, the tooth hung
dangling by the bed-post now.
But all trials bring their compensations. As Tom wended to school after breakfast, he
was the envy of every boy he met because the gap in his upper row of teeth enabled him
to expectorate in a new and admirable way. He gathered quite a following of lads interested
in the exhibition, and one that had cut his finger and had been a centre of fascination
and homage up to this time, now found himself suddenly without an adherent and shorn of
his glory. His heart was heavy, and he said with a disdain which he did not feel that
it wasn't anything to spit like Tom Sawyer, but another boy said, Sour Grapes, and he
wandered away a dismantled hero.
Shortly Tom came upon the juvenile pariah of the village, Huckleberry Finn, son of the
town drunkard. Huckleberry was cordially hated and dreaded by all the mothers of the town,
because he was idle, and lawless, and vulgar, and bad, and because all their children admired
him so, and delighted in his forbidden society, and wished they dared to be like him. Tom
was like the rest of the respectable boys in that he envied Huckleberry his gaudy outcast
condition, and was under strict orders not to play with him, so he played with him every
time he got a chance. Huckleberry was always dressed in the cast-off clothes of full-grown
men, and they were in perennial bloom and fluttering with rags. His hat was a vast ruin
with a wide crescent lopped out of its brim. His coat, when he wore one, hung nearly to
his heels, and had the rearward buttons far down the back, but one suspender supported
his trousers. The seat of the trousers bagged low and contained nothing, the fringed legs
dragged in the dirt when not rolled up.
Huckleberry came and went at his own free will. He slept on doorsteps in fine weather
and in empty hogsheads and wet. He did not have to go to school or to church, or call
any being master or obey anybody. He could go fishing or swimming when and where he chose,
and stay as long as it suited him. Nobody forbade him to fight. He could sit up as late
as he pleased. He was always the first boy that went barefoot in the spring, and the
to resume leather in the fall. He never had to wash nor put on clean clothes. He could
swear wonderfully. In a word, everything that goes to make life precious, that boy had.
So thought every harassed, hampered, respectable boy in St. Petersburg. Tom hailed the romantic
outcast.
"'Hullo, Huckleberry! Hello yourself, and see how you like it. What's that you got?
Dead cat. Let me see him, Huck. My, he's pretty stiff. Where'd you get him?'
"'Bought him off in a boy.'
"'What'd you give?'
"'I give a blue ticket and a bladder that I got at the slaughterhouse.'
"'Where'd you get the blue ticket?'
"'Bought it off in Ben Rogers two weeks ago for a hoop-stick.'
"'Say, what is dead cats good for, Huck?'
"'Good for? Pure warts with.'
"'No, is that so? I know something that's better.'
"'I bet you don't. What is it? Why, spunk-water.'
"'Spunk-water? I wouldn't give a durn for spunk-water. You wouldn't, wouldn't you? Do you ever try
it?'
"'No, I ain't. But Bob Tanner did.'
"'Who told you so? Why, he told Jeff Thatcher, and Jeff told Johnny Baker, and Johnny told
Jim Hollis, and Jim told Ben Rogers, and Ben told a nigger, and the nigger told me there
now.'
"'Well, whatever. They'll all lie. Least wise, all but the nigger. I don't know him. But
I never see a nigger that wouldn't lie. Shucks. Now you tell me how Bob Tanner done it, Huck.'
"'Why, he took and dipped his hand in a rotten stump where the rain-water was. In the day-time?
Certainly. With his face to the stump? Yes. Least I reckon so.'
"'Did he say anything? I don't reckon he did. I don't know. Ah ha! Talk about trying
to cure warts with spunk-water such a blameful way as that. Why, that ain't it going to do
any good. You gotta go all by yourself to the middle of the woods where you know there's
a spunk-water stump, and just as it's midnight, you back up against the stump and jam your
hand in and say, "'Barley-corn, barley-corn, Injun-meal shorts, spunk-water, spunk-water,
swallow these warts,' and then walk away quick, eleven steps, with your eyes shut, and then
turn around three times and walk home without speaking to anybody. Because if you speak,
the charm's busted.'
"'Well, that sounds like a good way, but that ain't the way Bob Tanner done.'
"'No, sir, you can bet he didn't, because he's the wardiest boy in this town, and he
wouldn't have a wart on him if he'd known how to work spunk-water.'
"'I've took thousands of warts off my hands that way, Huck. I play with frogs so much
I've always got considerable many warts. Sometimes I take them off with a bean.'
"'Yes, bean's good. I've done that. Have you? What's your way?'
"'You take and split the bean and cut the wart so as to get some blood, and then you
put the blood on one piece of the bean and take and dig a hole and bury it about midnight
at the crossroads in the dark of the moon, and then you burn up the rest of the bean.
You see, that piece that's got the blood on it will keep drawing and drawing, trying to
fetch the other piece to it, and so that helps the blood to draw the wart. And pretty soon
off she comes.'
"'Yes, that's it, Huck, that's it. Though when you're burying it, if you say, Down bean,
off wart, come no more to bother me, it's better. That's the way Joe Harper does, and
he's been nearly to Coonville and most everywhere's. But say, how do you cure him with dead cats?'
"'Why, you take your cat and go and get in the graveyard long about midnight when somebody
that was wicked has been buried. And when it's midnight a devil will come, or maybe
two or three, but you can't see him. You can only hear something like the wind, or maybe
hear him talk. And when they're taking that feller away, you heave your cat after him
and say, Devil follow corpse, cat follow devil, warts follow cat, I'm done with you. And that'll
fetch any wart.'
"'Sounds right. Do you ever try it, Huck?'
"'No, but old Mother Hopkins told me.'
"'Well, I reckon it's so, then, because they say she's a witch.'
"'Say?'
"'Why, Tom, I know she is. She witched Pap. Pap says so his own self. He come along one
day, and he sees she was a witch in him, so he took up a rock, and if she hadn't dodged
he'd a got her. Well, that very night he rolled off in the shed where he was a-laying drunk
and broke his arm.'
"'Why, that's awful. How did he know she was a witch in him?'
"'Lord, Pap can tell easy. Pap says when they keep looking at you right stidy, they're
witching you, especially if they mumble, because when they mumble they're saying the Lord's
Prayer backwards. Say, Huckie, when you going to try the cat?'
"'To-night. I reckon they'll come after old Hoss Williams to-night.'
"'But they buried him Saturday. Didn't they get him Saturday night?'
"'Why, how you talk. How could their charms work till midnight, and then it's Sunday?
Devils don't slosh round much of a Sunday, I don't reckon. I never thought of that.
That's so. Let me go with you.'
"'Of course, if he ain't afeard.'
"'Afeard? Taint likely. Will you meow?'
"'Yes, and you meow back, if you get a chance. Last time you kept me a-meowing around till
old Hayes went to throwing rocks at me and says, "'Darn that cat!' and so I hove a
brick through his window. But don't you tell?'
"'I won't. I couldn't meow that night because Auntie was watching me. But I'll meow this
time. Say, what's that?'
"'Nothin' but a tick. Where'd you get him? Out in the woods.'
"'What'll you take for him?'
"'I don't know. I don't want to sell him. All right. It's a mighty small tick, anyway.
Oh, anybody can run a tick down that don't belong to them. I'm satisfied with it. It's
a good enough tick for me. Show! There's ticks aplenty. I could have a thousand of them if
I wanted to.'
"'Well, why don't you? Because you know mighty well you can't. This is a pretty early tick,
I reckon. It's the first one I've seen this year. Say, Huck, I'll give you my tooth for
him. Let's see it.'
Tom got on a bit of paper and carefully unrolled it. Huckleberry viewed it wistfully. The temptation
was very strong. At last he said, "'Is it genuine?' Tom lifted his lip and showed the
vacancy.
"'Well, all right,' said Huckleberry. "'It's a trade.' Tom enclosed the tick in the percussion
cat-box that had lately been the Pinchbugs' prison, and the boys separated, each feeling
wealthier than before. When Tom reached the little isolated frame schoolhouse he strode
in briskly, with the manner of one who had come with all honest speed. He hung his hat
on a peg and flung himself into a seat with businesslike alacrity. The master, thrown
on high in his great splint-bottom arm-chair, was dozing, lulled by the drowsy hum of study.
The interruption roused him.
"'TOMMAS SOYER?' Tom knew that when his name was pronounced in full it meant trouble.
"'Sir, come up here. Now, sir, why are you late again, as usual?'
Tom was about to take refuge in a lie when he saw two long tails of yellow hair hanging
down a back that he recognized by the electric sympathy of love, and by that form was the
only vacant place on the girls' side of the schoolhouse. He instantly said,
"'I stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn!'
The master's pulse stood still, and he stared helplessly. The buzz of study ceased. The
pupils wondered if this foolhardy boy had lost his mind. The master said,
"'You—'
"'You did what?'
"'Stopped to talk with Huckleberry Finn.'
There was no mistaking the words.
"'TOMMAS SOYER, this is the most astounding confession I have ever listened to. No mere
feral will answer for this offence. Take off your jacket.'
The master's arm performed until it was tired, and the stock of switches
notably diminished. Then the order followed,
"'Now, sir, go and sit with the girls, and let this be a warning to you.'
The titter that rippled around the room appeared to bash the boy, but in
reality that result was caused rather more by his worshipful awe of his
unknown idol, and a dread pleasure that lay in his high good fortune. He
sat down upon the end of the pine bench, and the girl hitched herself
away from him with a toss of her head. Nudges and winks and whispers
traversed the room, but Tom sat still with his arms upon the long, low
desk before him, and seemed to study his book. By-and-by attention ceased
from him, and the accustomed school murmur rose upon the dull air once
more. Presently the boy began to steal furtive glances at the girl. She
observed it, made a mouth at him, and gave him the back of her head for
the space of a minute. When she cautiously faced around again, a peach
lay before her. She thrusted away. Tom gently put it back. She thrusted
away again, but with less animosity. Tom patiently returned it to its
place. Then she let it remain. Tom scrawled on his slate.
"'Please take it. I got more.' The girl glanced at the words, but made
no sign. Now the boy began to draw something on the slate, hiding his
work with his left hand. For a time the girl refused to notice, but her
human curiosity presently began to manifest itself by hardly perceptible
signs.
The boy worked on, apparently unconscious. The girl made a sort of
noise.
At last she gave in, and hesitatingly whispered,
"'Let me see it.' Tom uncovered a dismal caricature of a house with two
gable ends to it, and a corkscrew of smoke issuing from the chimney. Then
the girl's interest began to fasten itself upon the work as she forgot
everything else. When it was finished she gazed a moment, then whispered,
"'It's nice. Make a man.' The artist erected a man in the front yard
that resembled a derrick. He could have stepped over the house. But the
girl was not hypercritical. She was satisfied with the monster, and
whispered,
"'It's a beautiful man. Now make me coming along.' Tom drew an hourglass
with a full moon and straw limbs to it, and armed the spreading fingers
with a portentous fan. The girl said, "'It's ever so nice. I wish I could
draw.'
"'It's easy,' whispered Tom. I'll learn you.
"'Oh, will you? When?'
"'At noon. Do you go home to dinner?'
"'I'll stay, if you will.'
"'Good. That's a whack. What's your name?'
"'Becky Thatcher.'
"'What's yours?'
"'Oh, I know. It's Thomas Sawyer.'
"'That's the name they lick me by. I'm Tom when I'm good. You can call
me Tom, will you?'
"'Yes.'
Now Tom began to scrawl something on the slate, hiding the words from
the girl. But she was not backward this time. She begged to see. Tom
said,
"'Oh, it ain't anything.'
"'Yes, it is.'
"'No, it ain't. You don't want to see it.'
"'Yes, I do. Indeed, I do. Please let me. You'll tell.'
"'No, I won't. Deed and deed and double deed, I won't.'
"'You won't tell anybody at all? Ever as long as you live?'
"'No, I won't ever tell anybody. Now let me.'
"'Oh, you don't want to see. Now that you treat me so, I will see.' And
she put her small hand upon his, and the little scuffle ensued. Tom
pretending to resist in earnest, but letting his hand slip by degrees
till these words were revealed.
"'I love you.'
"'Oh, you bad thing!' And she hit his hand a smart wrap, but reddened
and looked pleased nevertheless. Just at this juncture the boy felt a
slow, fateful grip closing on his ear, and a steady lifting impulse. In
that vice he was borne across the house, and deposited in his own seat
under a peppering fire of giggles from the whole school. Then the master
stood over him during a few awful moments, and finally moved away to his
throne without saying a word. But although Tom's ear tingled, his heart
was jubilant. As the school quieted down, Tom made an honest effort to
study, but the turmoil within him was too great. In turn he took his
place in the reading class and made a botch of it, then in the geography
class and turned lakes into mountains, mountains into rivers, and rivers
into continents, till chaos was come again, then in the spelling class
and got turned down by a succession of mere baby words, till he brought
up at the foot and yielded up the pewter metal which he had worn with
ostentation for months.